Structured Query Language (SQL) is a programming language specifically created to access, organise and manipulate data within relational databases. In a relational database, information is arranged into one or more tables, each containing columns and rows of interconnected data entries that relate to each other in some way.


All data stored in a relational database is of a certain data type. Some of the most common data types are:
INTEGER, a positive or negative whole number
TEXT, a text string
DATE, the date formatted as YYYY-MM-DD
REAL, a decimal value


The following code is an example of a SQL statement.
A statement refers to a piece of text that the database system can interpret as a valid command.
It is important to note that SQL statements are terminated by a semicolon ; which indicates the end of the statement.

CREATE TABLE table_name (
   column_1 data_type,
   column_2 data_type,
   column_3 data_type 
);

CREATE TABLE is a clause.
In SQL, clauses are utilised to execute specific functions or operations.
It is customary to write clauses in SQL statements using capital letters.
In SQL, clauses can also be referred to as commands as they are used to perform specific actions or operations on the data stored within a database..
table_name refers to the name of the specific table on which a particular command or operation is being performed.

(column_1 data_type, column_2 data_type, column_3 data_type) are parameters.

A parameter is a set of values, columns, or data types that are provided to a clause as an input argument.


Insert table:-
Rows are added into a table using the INSERT INTO statement.
Below is the query to add the details of 'Abel George' to the existing table student.

 INSERT INTO student(Student_id,student_Name,Contact_Number)
 VALUES (34,'Abel George',910023432);

The clause INSERT INTO is used to append the specified row or multiple rows to a table.
student is the table the row is added to.
(Student_id,student_Name,Contact_Number) are the parameters used to specify the columns into which data will be inserted.
VALUES is used to specify the data that is being inserted.
(34,'Abel George',910023432) is a parameter identifying the values being inserted.
34: an integer that will be added to Student_id column
'Abel George': text that will be added to student_Name column. It should always be in single quotes.
910023432: Number that will be added to Contact_Number column.
Multiple rows can be added to a table in a single query by separating the parameters(used to insert data to a single row) by a comma ','